docs/user/quickstart.rst, before:

.. _peripy_docs_user_quickstart:

**********
Quickstart
**********

Examples
--------
You can find an examples of how to use the package under ``peripy/examples/``.

There are two examples that will output mesh files that can be viewed in `Paraview <https://www.paraview.org/>`_.

Example 1
^^^^^^^^^

Run the first example by typing ``python peripy/examples/example1/example.py``

Example 1 is a simple, 2D peridynamics simulation example.
This example is a 1.0m x 1.0m 2D plate with a central pre-crack subjected to
uniform velocity displacements on the left-hand side and right-hand side of
2.5x10^-6 metres per time-step. The ``--opencl`` argument toggles between OpenCL
and cython implementations. The ``--profile`` argument generates profiling information for the example.

Example 2
^^^^^^^^^

Run the second example by typing ``python peripy/examples/example2/example.py``

Example 2 is a simple, 3D peridynamics simulation example.
This example is a 1.65m x 0.25m x 0.6m plain concrete canteliver beam with no
pre-crack subjected to force controlled loading on the  right-hand side of the
beam which linearly increases up to 45kN.
In this example, the first time the volume, family and connectivity of the
model are calculated, they are also stored in file '1650beam13539_model.h5'.
In subsequent simulations, the arrays are loaded from this h5 file instead of
being calculated again, therefore reducing the overhead of initiating the
model. The ``--profile`` argument generates profiling information for the example

Example 3
^^^^^^^^^

Run the third example by typing ``python peripy/examples/example3/example_trilinear.py``

Example 3 demonstrates the simulation of a simply supported unnotched plain concrete beam in three-point bending. The chosen problem was tested experimentally by Grégoire et al. [1]. The member has the following dimensions: length l = 175 mm; depth d = 50 mm; and thickness b = 50 mm. The span is 125 mm. The problem is simulated using a 3D model and a trilinear constitutive model. Note that surface correction factors (to correct the peridynamic surface effect) and partial volume correction factors (to improve spatial integration accuracy) are missing from this example.

The numerical load-CMOD curve is outputted and compared against the experimental data. The numerical output is verified using code that has been written independently by Mark Hobbs (https://github.com/mhobbs18/BB_PD).

Note that the results can be improved by using a contact model. The supports introduce additional stiffness into the model. This effect is not so apparent due to the missing surface correction factors. 

[1] Grégoire, D., Rojas-Solano, L. B., and Pijaudier-Cabot, G. (2013). Failure and size effect for notched and unnotched concrete beams. International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics, 37(10):1434–1452.



The Model class
---------------
The :class:`peripy.model.Model` class allows users to define a bond-based
peridynamics model for composite materials with non-linear micromodulus
functions, stiffness correction factors and boundary conditions. The model
is defined by parameters and a set of initial conditions (coordinates,
connectivity and optionally bond_types and stiffness_corrections). For this an
:class:`peripy.integrators.Integrator` is required, and optionally
functions implementing the boundarys.

The Integrator class
--------------------

The :class:`peripy.integrators.Integrator` is the explicit time
integration method, see :mod:`peripy.integrators` for options.
Any integrator with the suffix 'CL' uses OpenCL kernels to calculate the
bond force and displacement update, resulting in orders of magnitude faster
simulation time when compared to using the cython implementation,
:class:`peripy.integrators.Euler`. OpenCL is 'heterogeneous' which
means the 'CL' integrator classes will work on a CPU device as well as a
GPU device. The preferable (faster) CL device will be chosen automatically.

    >>> from peridynamics import Model
    >>> from  peripy.integrators import EulerCL
    >>>
    >>> def is_displacement_boundary(x):
    >>>     # Node does not live on a boundary
    >>>     bnd = [None, None, None]
    >>>     # Node does live on a boundary
    >>>     if x[0] < 1.5 * 0.1:
    >>>         # These displacement boundary conditions
    >>>         # are applied in the negative x direction
    >>>         bnd[0] = -1
    >>>     elif x[0] > 1.0 - 1.5 * 0.1:
    >>>         # These displacement boundary conditions
    >>>         # are applied in the positive x direction
    >>>         bnd[0] = 1
    >>>     return bnd
    >>>
    >>> # for the cython implementation, use euler = Euler(dt)
    >>> euler = EulerCL(dt=1e-3)
    >>>
    >>> model = Model(
    >>>     mesh_file,
    >>>     integrator=euler,
    >>>     horizon=0.1,
    >>>     critical_stretch=0.005,
    >>>     bond_stiffness=18.00 * 0.05 / (np.pi * 0.1**4),
    >>>     is_displacement_boundary=is_displacement_boundary,
    >>>     )

Defining a crack
----------------

To define a crack in the inital configuration, you may supply a list of
pairs of nodes between which the crack is.

    >>> initial_crack = [(1,2), (5,7), (3,9)]
    >>> model = Model(
    >>>     mesh_file,
    >>>     integrator=euler,
    >>>     horizon=0.1,
    >>>     critical_stretch=0.005,
    >>>     bond_stiffness=18.00 * 0.05 / (np.pi * 0.1**4),
    >>>     is_displacement_boundary=is_displacement_boundary,
    >>>     initial_crack=initial_crack
    >>>     )

If it is more convenient to define the crack as a function you may also
pass a function to the constructor which takes the array of coordinates as
its only argument and returns a list of tuples as described above. The
:func:`peripy.model.initial_crack_helper` decorator has been provided
to easily create a function of the correct form from one which tests a
single pair of node coordinates and returns `True` or `False`.

    >>> from peridynamics import initial_crack_helper
    >>>
    >>> @initial_crack_helper
    >>> def initial_crack(x, y):
    >>>     ...
    >>>     if crack:
    >>>         return True
    >>>     else:
    >>>         return False
    >>>
    >>> model = Model(
    >>>     mesh_file,
    >>>     integrator=euler,
    >>>     horizon=0.1,
    >>>     critical_stretch=0.005,
    >>>     bond_stiffness=18.00 * 0.05 / (np.pi * 0.1**4),
    >>>     is_displacement_boundary=is_displacement_boundary,
    >>>     initial_crack=initial_crack
    >>>     )

Conducting a simulation
-----------------------

The :meth:`peripy.model.Model.simulate` method can be used to conduct a
peridynamics simulation. Here it is possible to define the boundary condition
magnitude throughout the simulation.

    >>> model = Model(...)
    >>>
    >>> # Number of time-steps
    >>> steps = 1000
    >>>
    >>> # Boundary condition magnitude throughout the simulation
    >>> displacement_bc_array = np.linspace(2.5e-6, 2.5e-3, steps)
    >>>
    >>> (u,
    >>>  ud,
    >>>  udd,
    >>>  force,
    >>>  body_force,
    >>>  damage,
    >>>  nlist,
    >>>  n_neigh) = model.simulate(
    >>>     steps=steps,
    >>>     displacement_bc_magnitudes=displacement_bc_array,
    >>>     write=100
    >>>     )

Conducting a simulation with initial conditions
-----------------------------------------------

It is possible to define initial conditions such as the
displacement vector `u`, the velocity vector `ud` and the
`connectivity` which is a `tuple`, (`nlist`, `n_neigh`). In
this example the first 1000 steps have been simulated,
generating the initial conditions for the next 1000 steps.
The first step has been set to 1000 in the second simulation.

    >>> model = Model(...)
    >>>
    >>> # Number of time-steps
    >>> steps = 1000
    >>>
    >>> # Boundary condition magnitude throughout the simulation
    >>> displacement_bc_array = np.linspace(2.5e-6, 2.5e-3, steps)
    >>>
    >>>  (u,
    >>>  ud,
    >>>  udd,
    >>>  force,
    >>>  body_force,
    >>>  damage,
    >>>  nlist,
    >>>  n_neigh) = model.simulate(
    >>>      ...displacement_bc_magnitudes=displacement_bc_array,
    >>>      ...)
    >>>
    >>> # Boundary condition magnitude throughout the simulation
    >>> displacement_bc_array = np.linspace(2.5025e-3, 5.0e-3, steps)
    >>>
    >>> u, *_ = model.simulate(
    >>>     u=u,
    >>>     ud=ud,
    >>>     connectivity=(nlist, n_neigh),
    >>>     steps=steps,
    >>>     first_step=1000,
    >>>     displacement_bc_magnitudes=displacement_bc_array,
    >>>     write=100
    >>>     )

Commit message:

Changed Mark's example to follow continuous integration and pep8 and lint and best useability practices. Added functionality that allows user to either/or/both write the mesh file, write the tip data

docs/user/quickstart.rst, after:

.. _peripy_docs_user_quickstart:

**********
Quickstart
**********

Examples
--------
You can find an examples of how to use the package under ``peripy/examples/``.

There are two examples that will output mesh files that can be viewed in `Paraview <https://www.paraview.org/>`_.

Example 1
^^^^^^^^^

Run the first example by typing ``python peripy/examples/example1/example.py``

Example 1 is a simple, 2D peridynamics simulation example.
This example is a 1.0m x 1.0m 2D plate with a central pre-crack subjected to
uniform velocity displacements on the left-hand side and right-hand side of
2.5x10^-6 metres per time-step. The ``--opencl`` argument toggles between OpenCL
and cython implementations. The ``--profile`` argument generates profiling information for the example.

Example 2
^^^^^^^^^

Run the second example by typing ``python peripy/examples/example2/example.py``

Example 2 is a simple, 3D peridynamics simulation example.
This example is a 1.65m x 0.25m x 0.6m plain concrete, canteliver beam, with no
pre-crack, subjected to force controlled loading on the  right-hand side of the
beam which linearly increases up to 45kN.
In this example, the first time the volume, family and connectivity of the
model are calculated, they are also stored in file '1650beam13539_model.h5'.
In subsequent simulations, the arrays are loaded from this h5 file instead of
being calculated again, therefore reducing the overhead of initiating the
model. The ``--profile`` argument generates profiling information for the
example.

Example 3
^^^^^^^^^

Run the third example by typing ``python peripy/examples/example3/example.py``

Example 3 is a simple, 3D peridynamics simulation example which is compared
to real life experimental data from Grégoire et al. [1], and also verified
against Mark Hobbs peridynamics code's [2] simulation data, which was developed
independently from PeriPy.

This example is a 0.175m x 0.05m x 0.05m plain concrete, simply supported
beam with no pre-crack, subjected to displacement controlled three-point
bending. The displacement loading follows a 5th order polynomial so that
acceleration of the boundaries is zero at the start and end of the simulation.
The span between the supports is 0.125m. The model uses a ``trilinear"
constitutive model. No surface correction factors or partial volume correction
factors are applied to the model.

In this example, the first time the volume, family and connectivity of the
model are calculated, they are also stored in file `175beam3620.h5'.
In subsequent simulations, the arrays are loaded from this h5 file instead of
being calculated again, therefore reducing the overhead of initiating the
model.

The output is a load-CMOD curve which is compared to the experimental data [1]
and to the verification data [2].

[1] Grégoire, D., Rojas-Solano, L. B., and Pijaudier-Cabot, G. (2013).
Failure and size effect for notched and unnotched concrete beams.
International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics,
37(10):1434–1452.

[2] Mark Hobbs (2019), BB_PD, https://github.com/mhobbs18/BB_PD

The Model class
---------------
The :class:`peripy.model.Model` class allows users to define a bond-based
peridynamics model for composite materials with non-linear micromodulus
functions, stiffness correction factors and boundary conditions. The model
is defined by parameters and a set of initial conditions (coordinates,
connectivity and optionally bond_types and stiffness_corrections). For this an
:class:`peripy.integrators.Integrator` is required, and optionally
functions implementing the boundarys.

The Integrator class
--------------------

The :class:`peripy.integrators.Integrator` is the explicit time
integration method, see :mod:`peripy.integrators` for options.
Any integrator with the suffix 'CL' uses OpenCL kernels to calculate the
bond force and displacement update, resulting in orders of magnitude faster
simulation time when compared to using the cython implementation,
:class:`peripy.integrators.Euler`. OpenCL is 'heterogeneous' which
means the 'CL' integrator classes will work on a CPU device as well as a
GPU device. The preferable (faster) CL device will be chosen automatically.

    >>> from peridynamics import Model
    >>> from  peripy.integrators import EulerCL
    >>>
    >>> def is_displacement_boundary(x):
    >>>     # Node does not live on a boundary
    >>>     bnd = [None, None, None]
    >>>     # Node does live on a boundary
    >>>     if x[0] < 1.5 * 0.1:
    >>>         # These displacement boundary conditions
    >>>         # are applied in the negative x direction
    >>>         bnd[0] = -1
    >>>     elif x[0] > 1.0 - 1.5 * 0.1:
    >>>         # These displacement boundary conditions
    >>>         # are applied in the positive x direction
    >>>         bnd[0] = 1
    >>>     return bnd
    >>>
    >>> # for the cython implementation, use euler = Euler(dt)
    >>> euler = EulerCL(dt=1e-3)
    >>>
    >>> model = Model(
    >>>     mesh_file,
    >>>     integrator=euler,
    >>>     horizon=0.1,
    >>>     critical_stretch=0.005,
    >>>     bond_stiffness=18.00 * 0.05 / (np.pi * 0.1**4),
    >>>     is_displacement_boundary=is_displacement_boundary,
    >>>     )

Defining a crack
----------------

To define a crack in the inital configuration, you may supply a list of
pairs of nodes between which the crack is.

    >>> initial_crack = [(1,2), (5,7), (3,9)]
    >>> model = Model(
    >>>     mesh_file,
    >>>     integrator=euler,
    >>>     horizon=0.1,
    >>>     critical_stretch=0.005,
    >>>     bond_stiffness=18.00 * 0.05 / (np.pi * 0.1**4),
    >>>     is_displacement_boundary=is_displacement_boundary,
    >>>     initial_crack=initial_crack
    >>>     )

If it is more convenient to define the crack as a function you may also
pass a function to the constructor which takes the array of coordinates as
its only argument and returns a list of tuples as described above. The
:func:`peripy.model.initial_crack_helper` decorator has been provided
to easily create a function of the correct form from one which tests a
single pair of node coordinates and returns `True` or `False`.

    >>> from peridynamics import initial_crack_helper
    >>>
    >>> @initial_crack_helper
    >>> def initial_crack(x, y):
    >>>     ...
    >>>     if crack:
    >>>         return True
    >>>     else:
    >>>         return False
    >>>
    >>> model = Model(
    >>>     mesh_file,
    >>>     integrator=euler,
    >>>     horizon=0.1,
    >>>     critical_stretch=0.005,
    >>>     bond_stiffness=18.00 * 0.05 / (np.pi * 0.1**4),
    >>>     is_displacement_boundary=is_displacement_boundary,
    >>>     initial_crack=initial_crack
    >>>     )

Conducting a simulation
-----------------------

The :meth:`peripy.model.Model.simulate` method can be used to conduct a
peridynamics simulation. Here it is possible to define the boundary condition
magnitude throughout the simulation.

    >>> model = Model(...)
    >>>
    >>> # Number of time-steps
    >>> steps = 1000
    >>>
    >>> # Boundary condition magnitude throughout the simulation
    >>> displacement_bc_array = np.linspace(2.5e-6, 2.5e-3, steps)
    >>>
    >>> (u,
    >>>  ud,
    >>>  udd,
    >>>  force,
    >>>  body_force,
    >>>  damage,
    >>>  nlist,
    >>>  n_neigh) = model.simulate(
    >>>     steps=steps,
    >>>     displacement_bc_magnitudes=displacement_bc_array,
    >>>     write=100
    >>>     )

Conducting a simulation with initial conditions
-----------------------------------------------

It is possible to define initial conditions such as the
displacement vector `u`, the velocity vector `ud` and the
`connectivity` which is a `tuple`, (`nlist`, `n_neigh`). In
this example the first 1000 steps have been simulated,
generating the initial conditions for the next 1000 steps.
The first step has been set to 1000 in the second simulation.

    >>> model = Model(...)
    >>>
    >>> # Number of time-steps
    >>> steps = 1000
    >>>
    >>> # Boundary condition magnitude throughout the simulation
    >>> displacement_bc_array = np.linspace(2.5e-6, 2.5e-3, steps)
    >>>
    >>>  (u,
    >>>  ud,
    >>>  udd,
    >>>  force,
    >>>  body_force,
    >>>  damage,
    >>>  nlist,
    >>>  n_neigh) = model.simulate(
    >>>      ...displacement_bc_magnitudes=displacement_bc_array,
    >>>      ...)
    >>>
    >>> # Boundary condition magnitude throughout the simulation
    >>> displacement_bc_array = np.linspace(2.5025e-3, 5.0e-3, steps)
    >>>
    >>> u, *_ = model.simulate(
    >>>     u=u,
    >>>     ud=ud,
    >>>     connectivity=(nlist, n_neigh),
    >>>     steps=steps,
    >>>     first_step=1000,
    >>>     displacement_bc_magnitudes=displacement_bc_array,
    >>>     write=100
    >>>     )
